+++
title = "Pactus Reaches 100 TPS"
author = "Pactus Team"
date = 2024-10-10T15:48:36+01:00
tags = ["Announcement","TPS"]
image = "pactus-100-tps.png"
+++

At Pactus, we’ve achieved an important milestone—processing 100 transactions per second (TPS) on our blockchain.
Check out [block 1597855](https://phoenix.pacviewer.com/block/1597855), which contains 1,000 transactions.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Xh19Im7axvQ?si=JIMRXYWlKiWV9-2M"
title="YouTube video player"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

But what exactly is TPS, and why does it matter?

### Understanding TPS and Its Significance

TPS is a measurement of how many transactions a blockchain can process per second. It’s often used as a benchmark
to evaluate the efficiency of a network. A higher TPS means the network can handle more transactions quickly,
which is critical How Pactus Achieved 100 TPS.

### How Pactus Achieved 100 TPS

Using the Python [SDK](https://github.com/pactus-project/python-sdk), we ran tests on our testnet, successfully
sending 120 transactions per second. Our testnet mirrors the mainnet with identical
[consensus](https://docs.pactus.org/protocol/consensus/) parameters, meaning we expect almost the same
performance on the mainnet.

### TPS is Not the Full Story

While reaching 100 TPS is a significant technical achievement, it’s important to note that TPS alone isn’t the
best way to measure blockchain performance. Factors like decentralization, security, and network stability also
matter when evaluating a blockchain. TPS gives us a useful snapshot, but it doesn’t capture the full picture
of what makes a blockchain robust.

### Summary

The 100 TPS figure is just a benchmark, with the network capable of even higher performance. While we've tested
100 TPS and 1,000 transactions per block, we haven't pushed the network to its limits. Important details, such
as the 10-second block time, 1,000 transaction capacity per block, and 10-second finality, highlight the
network’s capabilities but only scratch the surface of its full potential.
